So let's talk about, let's go over,
let's see how this thing works.
And of course,
we're gonna be using none other than
our beautiful linked lists right here.
So I'm gonna create another one of these,
zoom in.
For those that don't remember,
a linked list is a node like
algorithm which is gonna have a value,
which is gonna be a T.
And it's gonna have a next and
sometimes they will also have a previous
if it's a doubly linked list and
of course these are of type node T.
All right, so now that we kind of
back into it, so if you can think
about it here, I'm gonna redraw our
nice little list here A, B, C, D.
A stack is a lot like, so
this is a queue really,
this is actually how you do a queue,
right?
You have your head, you have your tail.
Now a stack is gonna be
backwards to a queue.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna actually have
A points to B points to
C which points to D.
And what we're gonna have is
this is gonna be our head.
So it's as if we pushed in A, we pushed
in B, we pushed in C, we pushed in D.
Now the reason why you have to draw it
backwards cuz I always draw it backwards
cuz it's so much easier to draw
backwards is you really kind of,
you can think about this
like a stack of plates.
If you have an error in your code,
you get a stack trace.
You wanna guess what a stack trace is,
it's the stack of functions that
you've called up until this point.
So a stack is something in which looks
like a queue or acts like a queue.
It's a singly linked list in which you
only add and remove from the head.
That is why the arrows are backwards, or
at least that's how I always
visualize it in my head.
You don't have to draw it backwards,
just for me it's a lot easier.
So if we were to add to a stack,
we would do the exact same thing.
We would take heads next, or
we'd take E and we point to head,
then we'd update head to point to E,
right?
So instead of doing it the queue way,
which is slightly different,
we point E to head,
we update head to point to E.
Pretty simple, right?
We do those operations backwards,
you lose all of your data,
you'll never find it again.
And if you're in a real language,
you will also leak it and
then you now have more
memory floating around.
The reverse operation of a stack
of course is removing it.
So what would you do?
If your head was pointed right here,
you'd update your head,
or first, you'd save off this, then you'd
update your head to point to next or
previous depending on
how you wanna create it.
And then you could return out E.
E would no longer be pointing here.
We break it off from the graph.
We just do the opposite, inverse.
So it's a lot like a queue.
In fact, it's almost, it's so
much like a queue it's very,
very easy to get them confused.
And or accidentally program them one or
the other way and even more so
when drawing them,
get your errors backwards, right?
So a stack is also very, very simple,
very, very easy to use and
you see them all over the place.
The big thing that you'll definitely see
them with is coming up here when we start
doing recursion, it's really good to
think of calling functions like a stack.
Once you start looking at the world
like a stack as you call functions,
it becomes easier, and we'll go over
this in more detail when we get there.
But it just helps give you a mental
model of what's going on actually within
the computer cuz when you do call a
function it is actually on something like
a stack.
In fact, the memory that it
uses is called the stack for
a reason,
because it is only going up and down.
There we go.
So, let's go through this.
And so a push operation we did that,
a peak operation exact same
thing as a queue, right?
Take the head, if there is a value,
we return the value else
we don't return anything.
And again constraints, they're awesome,
right, by only allowing pushing and
popping from one side we can make
them a really fast operation.
Cuz what is the operation again?
For updating pointers.
Constant, it doesn't matter how
many items are in the list,
it does not matter how big the value is.
The fact is, we are just simply
setting things to null or
setting them to point to different values.
We'd kind of consider those
constant time operations.
Again, I know property access on
an object in JavaScript may or
may not be constant time
blah blah blah blah.
We just don't think of it like that.
All right, though I did have
an interview once at Uber,
in which the person made me not
only go over all the running time.
They're like, well, you didn't know that,
accessing properties in
JavaScript is log N, like okay.
Then if that's the case,
then everything just put a log
N on the end of everything.
He's like, well then,
what's the running time, well, it's log N.
And it was just like the longest
most drawn out, make everything,
add the word log N to everything.
It was very annoying.
So typically, we just don't do that.
All right